To edit an articles categories.
We need to add the available categories to the farm.
So first we need a method to get a list of all categories.
Let's add a category class in the classes folder.
And start with the class definition and comment.
We can copy the get all method from the article class.
And paste this in the new class.
All we need to change is the esky well.
To select all the cards from the category table instead ordering them by name and also the method comment
block.
Then in the edit article page.
Let's call this new method and add a line to print out this data so we can check it's working.
In the browser to erase our printed out the first is this articles categories and the second is an array
of all available categories.
These are coming from the method we just added.
Now we need to add a farm control so the user can edit the articles categories.
We could have a select list element with the multiple attributes specified but this isn't very easy
to use as the user has to hold down the control key to select more than one item.
It's more intuitive to have a series of check boxes.
The farm is in the admen includes article farm script here.
Let's start by adding a field set for the available categories.
With an associated legend then we can loop around the categories array and let's put each category inside
a div element.
Each category will have a checkbox input with the name attributes set to an array so we can get multiple
values and the value attribute sets to the category.
Eidy will add a label element after this containing the name attributes of the category and not forgetting
to escape this with the h.t. EMAIL special Charles function as this could contain user enter text to
associate the input with the label.
We need a unique idae on the input we can create one by using the Category eidy like that.
And this is also what we put in the labels for attribute.
In the browser Here are the categories and we can click on the labels and it selects the check boxes.
As we were editing an existing article that already has some related categories we need to load this
farm with those category check boxes already selected.
In the edit article script we're getting the current articles categories using the get categories method.
This returns an array of associative arrays like this.
So we know which checkboxes to select.
We need a list of just the I.D. of these categories.
We can use the array column function for this given an array of associative arrays like this.
This function will return an array of just the values from a single column.
So let's change this vardhan line to call this function passing in the data and the name of the column
we want.
We can also remove this var dump line now too.
Now we have an array of just the idees.
Let's change the vardhan plein to assign this array to a variable instead.
And then in the form in the check box input element if the category idae is in this array.
We add the checked attribute.
Now in the form if the article already has some categories related to it their associated check boxes
are already selected.
If I choose an article that doesn't have any categories then no check boxes are selected.